# 1. Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
## Storage Services
- Always use *SSD*, not HDD, if you are performance conscious.
- New units: Decibel vs Binary terminologies. gibibyte != A gigabyte
- KiB = 1024 bytes = 2^10 bytes. KB = 1000 bytes = 10^3 bytes. MiB = 2^20 bytes. MB = 10^6 bytes. etc. 
- Availability: when you access the file, it will be there.
- Durability: file exists somewhere on AWS.
- S3 always has 11-9 durability. Availability of different S3 storage classes, however, changes.
## S3 Storage Class
- Most objects in S3 distributes across at least ***three availability zones (AZs)***.
- Storage class ***1A*** is only in one availability zone. Less recoverable, yet cheap.
- S3 supports encryption and automatic data classification.
- S3 supports analytics inside buckets directly.
- Ways to get data into S3: API, Amazon Direct Connect, Storage Gateway, Kinesis Firehose (large amount of data), Transfer Acceleration (needs CloudFront, when you need to upload data elsewhere across the globe, expensive), Snow Family (physical storage, if your data uploaded through Internet could take huge amount of time).
## S3 Terminology
- Bucket: the container, think of it as a root directory. Can have "folders" in the bucket.
- Region: where the bucket lives that is nearest to the user.
- Object: files you put in a container.
- Key: name of the object. Path of that object is included in the prefixes in the key.
- Object URL: each object has a globally unique url that could be made public.
- Consistency: objects in all availability zones are consistent and up-to-date when one copy of that object in one availability zone is updated.
- Eventual consistency: object sync when updated across different availability zones might not be simultaneous, but eventually they will be consistent.
- Elastic Block Service or EBS is consistent, kinda like a hard drive. S3 is eventual consistent.
- S3 bucket can act like a static web server, since it has unique urls.
- S3 API is a REST API, which supports HTTP methods.
## S3 Advanced Features
- Object lifecycle management: ability ot assign a storage class in certain life stages of an object/bucket.
- Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Delete: have to be authenticated to delete.
- Multi-part upload
- Range GET: get objects within a range.
- Cross-region replication: replicate data across different regions. Only applys to new stuff added to a bucket.
- Logging/Event Notifications
## Lab: Creating S3 Buckets
- S3 bucket name has to be globally unique.
- Logging could be enabled on bucket level and object level.
- Server-side encryption.
- Once versioning is enabled, it cannot be disabled, only suspended.
## S3 Bucket Properties
- Default encryption is AES-256.
## Lab: Managing S3 Objects

# 2. Additional AWS Storage Services
## Amazon Glacier
- Three access methods: Expedited (3-5 minutes), Standard (3-5 hours), and Bulk (5-12 hours).
- Can use Snow Family.
- Objects are called ***archives*** in Glacier.
- Buckets are called ***vault*** in Glacier.
- 5% of archive retrieval is free every month. No rollover.
- A single AWS account can crewate up to 1000 valuts per Region.
- Only empty vaults can be deleted.
- Glacier supports multipart uploads of archives, so a large archive is not required to be uploaded in a single action.
## Elastic Block Store (EBS)
- Virtual secondary memory/hard drive.
- Used for durable storage in EC2 storage.
- Block-level storage from one AWS service to another.
- Volume Types: ***Magnetic***(slow, cheap), ***SSD***(**General purpose**, which is kinda expensive or **Provisioned IOPS**, has a guarenteed I/O performance if you need guarenteed input/output operations per second).
- To protect your data in EBS: ***Snapshot***(an image used to create duplicates of your EBS), ***Volume Recovery***(Attach volumes from one instance to another, kinda like a backup hard drive), ***Encryption***
## Lab: Creating EBS Volumes
- Can be set up through EC2, since EBS is essentially the hard drive on your virtual machine.
- Snapshot might be be available because of region.
- EBS volumes can be attached to any EC2 instance in the same availability zone.
## Elastic File System (EFS)
- EFS is sharable: can be accessed by multiple instances, while EBS is bounded to an instance.
- EFS is not supported on Windows instances.
- Ideal for larger files compared to EBS. Think of a shared foler.
## Lab: Creating an EFS File System
- Works on Linux systems.
- Connect through NFS.
- Can be limited to a VPC.
## Integrating on-premise Storage
- Storage gateway connects on-premises software appliances with cloud-based storage.
- Really a virtual machine image that you can download and install on your local system to provide a gateway to AWS.
- Three types of storage solutions: file-based, volume-based, tape-based.
- File Gateway provides gateway to S3.
## Lab: Storage Access Security
- JSON policy could be generated automatically.
- ACL, or Access Control Lists, could be set or retrieved through CLI with S3 API.
## Storage Performance
- Max IOPS from General Purpose SSD (EBS): 10,000 IOPS
- Max IOPS from Provisioned IOPS (EBS): 32,000 IOPS
- MAX IOPS from Magnetic (EBS): 500 IOPS
