# 1. Amazon VPC Applications
## Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Overview
- Essentially public cloud in AWS that gives you private security and access.
- Can have subnets within a VPC.
- Multiple VPCs can be interconnected to share resources through VPC Peering.
- Can create VPC endpoints to connect to other AWS services like S3 or outside AWS.
- VPC is created by default for you. Don't delete the default VPC.
## Creating A VPC Lab
- First two numbers in IPv4 is the network, second 2 numbers are the host address.
## Configuring A DHCP Options Lab
- DHCP Option is some configuration parameter related to IP address protocal. 
- You can configure the following parameters in DHCP options: Domain Name Servers, Domain Name, NTP Servers, NetBIOS name servers, and NetBIOS node types.
## Elastic IP (EIP) Addresses
- Public IP addresses are created via Elastic IP.
- Public EIP is permanently allocated to your account will be charged until you give it up.
- EIP can be moved between instances within the same Region.
- Elastic Network Interfaces (ENIs) use the EIP.
- Make sure you are binding EIP to an instance first before you request one.
## Elastic Network Interfaces (ENIs)
- ENI is a virtual network card attached to an AWS EC2 instance.
- Connected to an instance.
- Multiple ENIs connected to a single instances allows for ***dual-homing***.
- Has to be within a VPC. Associated with subnets.
## Endpoints
- Create an Endpoint: Specify the VPC, Specify the service (com.amazonaws.<region>.<service>), Specify the policy, Specify route table.

# 2. VPC Peering
## VPC Peering
- VPC peering is not transitive: A peerd with B and B peered with C != A peered with C. Must have direct peering.
- Need one initiator from one VPC and one receiver from the other VPC. Both have to be the owner, not even an admin.
- An example would be DEV VPC and PROD VPC.
- Best practice: use subnet host names for subsets to avoid address conflict when peered with another VPC.
## Creating A VPC Peering Connection Lab

# 3. Amazon VPC Security
## Security Groups Overview
- Security groups work like a firewall assigned to an EC2 instance.
- Security group applies to instances. It has only allow rules, and denies are implied. It is stateful.
- Network Access Control List (NACL) applies on subnets. It is stateless, and has both allow and deny rules. First match applies. A first match in the list allows allows; deny denies.
## Network Address Translation (NAT)
- When private IP address tries to talk to the Internet, it goes through NAT router.
- Instances in the private subnet connect through the NAT instance.
- Can find a predefined NAT AMI image on AWS.
- Alternatively, create a NAT gateway.
## Gateways (VPGs and CGWs)
- Virtual Private Gateway (VPG) connects local networks to the VPC, kinda like a VPN.
- Customer Gateway is on your local system that connects to VPG. Take that IP address and feed it to AWS.
- VPG and CGW together forms a VPN. VPN cannot be configured without the two pieces.
